Standing biomass was determined using volumetric measurements (plant height and % cover) from permanent quadrats established for Sev-129, "Core Research Site Web Quadrat Data". Seasonal above-ground net primary production (ANPP), is calculated using volumetric measurements from Sev-129, and species specific regressions calculated from seasonal dry harvest weights from destructive sampling Sev-157 (http://sev.lternet.edu/data/sev-157), "Net Primary Productivity (NPP) Weight Data". These measurements are compiled in Sev-182, "Seasonal Biomass and Seasonal and Annual NPP for Core Research Sites”. Core research sites are: creosote-dominant shrubland (Site C, est. winter 1999), black grama-dominant grassland (Site G, est. winter 1999), blue grama-dominant grassland (Site B, est. winter 2002), and pinon-juniper woodland (Site P, est. winter 2003), though this study subsets the data for site C and site G. Seasonal net primary production (NPP) is derived by subtracting the previous season's NPP from the NPP for the current season, negative differences are considered to be 0. Annual NPP is the sum of spring and fall NPP. Refer to metadata on the Sevilleta LTER data portal for detailed information on sample measurements and collection procedures (http://sev.lternet.edu/data/sev-129, -182, -157)
The small mammal trapping data set (http://sev.lternet.edu/data/sev-8) “Small Mammal Mark-Recapture Population Dynamics at Core Research Sites at the Sevilleta National Wildlife Refuge, New Mexico (1989 - present)”, contains mark/recapture data collected on permanently established trapping webs. This study subsets the data for the Chihuahuan Desert Grassland (Site G) and the Chihuahuan Desert Shrubland (Site C) core sites. At each site 3 trapping webs are sampled for 3 consecutive nights in spring and fall. Each trapping web consists of 148 traps deployed in a wagon wheel configuration of 12 traps along each of 12 spokes radiating out from a central point (stake #145) plus 4 traps at the center point, the first four traps on each spoke were spaced 5 m apart, providing a trap saturation effect. The remaining eight traps on a spoke are spaced 10 m apart. The trap configuration is a series of concentric rings with decreasing density as you travel out from a central stake. The design is configured to produce a gradient in trap density and, therefore, in the probability of capture. This design was originally conceived to make use of the program “Distance” to calculate species density. This proved to be difficult due to a lack of documentation and support for “Distance”. We utilized a different metric in this paper, we summed the total small mammals trapped by species and divided by the number of traps set each night for a particular trapping bout. We represent our data as species “n”/trap night. Refer to the sev data portal (http://sev.lternet.edu/data/sev-8) for additional information. 

